BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley jerked awake.
"Where's the cannon?" he said stupidly.
There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernon came skidding into the room. He was holding a rifle in his hands - now
they knew what had been in the long, thin package he had brought
with them.
"Who's there?" he shouted. "I warn you - I'm armed!"
There was a pause. Then -
SMASH!
The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its
hinges and with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.
A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face was almost completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild,
tangled beard, but you could make out his eyes, glinting like black
beetles under all the hair.
B
THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS
‘ 47 ‘
The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his
head just brushed the ceiling. He bent down, picked up the door,
and fitted it easily back into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little. He turned to look at them all.
"Couldn't make us a cup o' tea, could yeh? It's not been an easy
journey. . . ."
He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen with fear.
"Budge up, yeh great lump," said the stranger.
Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, who was
crouching, terrified, behind Uncle Vernon.
"An' here's Harry!" said the giant.
Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and saw that
the beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile.
"Las' time I saw you, you was only a baby," said the giant. "Yeh
look a lot like yer dad, but yeh've got yer mom's eyes."
Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise.
"I demand that you leave at once, sir!" he said. "You are breaking and entering!"
"Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune," said the giant; he
reached over the back of the sofa, jerked the gun out of Uncle Vernon's hands, bent it into a knot as easily as if it had been made of
rubber, and threw it into a corner of the room.
Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a mouse being
trodden on.
"Anyway - Harry," said the giant, turning his back on the
Dursleys, "a very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh
here - I mighta sat on it at some point, but it'll taste all right."
From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled a slightly
CHAPTER FOUR
‘ 48 ‘
squashed box. Harry opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was a
large, sticky chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on
it in green icing.
Harry looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank you, but
the words got lost on the way to his mouth, and what he said instead was, "Who are you?"
The giant chuckled.
"True, I haven't introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of
Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts."
He held out an enormous hand and shook Harry's whole arm.
"What about that tea then, eh?" he said, rubbing his hands together. "I'd not say no ter summat stronger if yeh've got it, mind."
His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in
it and he snorted. He bent down over the fireplace; they couldn't
see what he was doing but when he drew back a second later, there
was a roaring fire there. It filled the whole damp hut with flickering
light and Harry felt the warmth wash over him as though he'd sunk
into a hot bath.
The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his
weight, and began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his
coat: a copper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a
teapot, several chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquid
that he took a swig from before starting to make tea. Soon the hut
was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a
thing while the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat,
juicy, slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon said sharply, "Don't touch anything he gives you,
Dudley."
The giant chuckled darkly.
THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS
‘ 49 ‘
"Yer great puddin' of a son don' need fattenin' anymore, Dursley, don' worry."
He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry he had
never tasted anything so wonderful, but he still couldn't take his
eyes off the giant. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said, "I'm sorry, but I still don't really know who you are."
The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the back
of his hand.
"Call me Hagrid," he said, "everyone does. An' like I told yeh,
I'm Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts - yeh'll know all about Hogwarts, o' course."
"Er - no," said Harry.
Hagrid looked shocked.
"Sorry," Harry said quickly.
"Sorry?" barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the Dursleys, who
shrank back into the shadows. "It's them as should be sorry! I knew
yeh weren't gettin' yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn't even
know abou' Hogwarts, fer cryin' out loud! Did yeh never wonder
where yer parents learned it all?"
"All what?" asked Harry.
"ALL WHAT?" Hagrid thundered. "Now wait jus' one second!"
He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill the whole
hut. The Dursleys were cowering against the wall.
"Do you mean ter tell me," he growled at the Dursleys, "that this
boy - this boy! - knows nothin' abou' - about ANYTHING?"
Harry thought this was going a bit far. He had been to school,
after all, and his marks weren't bad.
"I know some things," he said. "I can, you know, do math and
stuff."
CHAPTER FOUR
‘ 50 ‘
But Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, "About our world,
I mean. Your world. My world. Yer parents' world."
"What world?"
Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.
"DURSLEY!" he boomed.
Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something
that sounded like "Mimblewimble." Hagrid stared wildly at Harry.
"But yeh must know about yer mom and dad," he said. "I mean,
they're famous. You're famous."
"What? My - my mom and dad weren't famous, were they?"
"Yeh don' know . . . yeh don' know . . ." Hagrid ran his fingers
through his hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare.
"Yeh don' know what yeh are?" he said finally.
Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice.
"Stop!" he commanded. "Stop right there, sir! I forbid you to tell
the boy anything!"
A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under
the furious look Hagrid now gave him; when Hagrid spoke, his
every syllable trembled with rage.
"You never told him? Never told him what was in the letter
Dumbledore left fer him? I was there! I saw Dumbledore leave it,
Dursley! An' you've kept it from him all these years?"
"Kept what from me?" said Harry eagerly.
"STOP! I FORBID YOU!" yelled Uncle Vernon in panic.
Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror.
"Ah, go boil yer heads, both of yeh," said Hagrid. "Harry - yer
a wizard."
There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling
wind could be heard.
THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS
‘ 51 ‘
"I'm a what?" gasped Harry.
"A wizard, o' course," said Hagrid, sitting back down on the
sofa, which groaned and sank even lower, "an' a thumpin' good'un,
I'd say, once yeh've been trained up a bit. With a mum an' dad like
yours, what else would yeh be? An' I reckon it's abou' time yeh read
yer letter."
Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowish envelope, addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Potter, The Floor, Huton-the-Rock, The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read:
HOGWARTS SCHOOL
of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY
Headmaster: Albus Dumbledore
(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sorc., Chf. Warlock,
Supreme Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards)
Dear Mr. Potter,
We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted
at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please
find enclosed a list of all necessary books and equipment.
Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no
later than July 31.
Yours sincerely,
Minerva McGonagall,
Deputy Headmistress
CHAPTER FOUR
‘ 52 ‘
Questions exploded inside Harry's head like fireworks and he
couldn't decide which to ask first. After a few minutes he stammered, "What does it mean, they await my owl?"
"Gallopin' Gorgons, that reminds me," said Hagrid, clapping a
hand to his forehead with enough force to knock over a cart horse,
and from yet another pocket inside his overcoat he pulled an
owl - a real, live, rather ruffled-looking owl - a long quill, and a
roll of parchment. With his tongue between his teeth he scribbled
a note that Harry could read upside down:
Dear Professor Dumbledore,
Given Harry his letter.
Taking him to buy his things tomorrow.
Weather's horrible. Hope you're well.
Hagrid
Hagrid rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which clamped it in
its beak, went to the door, and threw the owl out into the storm.
Then he came back and sat down as though this was as normal as
talking on the telephone.
Harry realized his mouth was open and closed it quickly.
"Where was I?" said Hagrid, but at that moment, Uncle Vernon,
still ashen-faced but looking very angry, moved into the firelight.
"He's not going," he said.
Hagrid grunted.
"I'd like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him," he said.
"A what?" said Harry, interested.
THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS
‘ 53 ‘
"A Muggle," said Hagrid, "it's what we call nonmagic folk like
them. An' it's your bad luck you grew up in a family o' the biggest
Muggles I ever laid eyes on."
"We swore when we took him in we'd put a stop to that rubbish," said Uncle Vernon, "swore we'd stamp it out of him! Wizard
indeed!"
"You knew?" said Harry. "You knew I'm a - a wizard?"
"Knew!" shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. "Knew! Of course we
knew! How could you not be, my dratted sister being what she
was? Oh, she got a letter just like that and disappeared off to
that - that school - and came home every vacation with her
pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacups into rats. I was the only
one who saw her for what she was - a freak! But for my mother
and father, oh no, it was Lily this and Lily that, they were proud of
having a witch in the family!"
She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. It
seemed she had been wanting to say all this for years.
"Then she met that Potter at school and they left and got married and had you, and of course I knew you'd be just the same, just
as strange, just as - as - abnormal - and then, if you please, she
went and got herself blown up and we got landed with you!"
Harry had gone very white. As soon as he found his voice he
said, "Blown up? You told me they died in a car crash!"
"CAR CRASH!" roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily that the
Dursleys scuttled back to their corner. "How could a car crash kill
Lily an' James Potter? It's an outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not
knowin' his own story when every kid in our world knows his
name!"
CHAPTER FOUR
‘ 54 ‘
"But why? What happened?" Harry asked urgently.
The anger faded from Hagrid's face. He looked suddenly anxious.
"I never expected this," he said, in a low, worried voice. "I had
no idea, when Dumbledore told me there might be trouble gettin'
hold of yeh, how much yeh didn't know. Ah, Harry, I don' know if
I'm the right person ter tell yeh - but someone's gotta - yeh can't
go off ter Hogwarts not knowin'."

